

**References**
- [https://docs.datastax.com/en/archived/cassandra/3.0/cassandra/configuration/secureInternalAuthenticationTOC.html](https://docs.datastax.com/en/archived/cassandra/3.0/cassandra/configuration/secureInternalAuthenticationTOC.html)

## Authentication with Cassandra

### Cassandra Configurration 

```sql
CREATE ROLE thehive WITH PASSWORD = 'thehive1234' AND LOGIN = true;
GRANT ALL PERMISSIONS ON KEYSPACE thehive TO thehive;
```

### TheHive Configuration 

```
db.janusgraph {
  storage {
    ## Cassandra configuration
    # More information at https://docs.janusgraph.org/basics/configuration-reference/#storagecql
    backend: cql
    hostname: ["xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx"]
    # Cassandra authentication (if configured)
    username: "thehive"
    password: "thehive1234"
    cql {
      cluster-name: thp
      keyspace: thehive
    }
  }
```


## Securing Cassandra connection with TheHive

This guide explains how to secure connection between Cassandra server and Cassandra clients (TheHive). This document doesn’t address communication between Cassandra servers, when a Cassandra cluster contains several nodes. 

### Requirements 

The setup requires a valid X509 certificate for the Cassandra service. It must have standard properties of server certificate:

 - key usage: Digital Signature, Non Repudiation, Key Encipherment, Key Agreement
 - Extended Key Usage: TLS Web Server Authentication
 - Cert Type: SSL Server

It also must have a "Subject Alternative Name" with the identifier (DNS name or/and IP address) of the Cassandra server seen by the client.
The format of the certificate file is PKCS12 (file with extention p12).

Then create a truststore containing the certificate authority used to generate the certificate for Cassandra. The truststore must be in Java format (JKS). If you CA file is ca.crt, you can generate the truststore file with the following command:

```
keytool -import -file /path/to/ca.crt -alias CA -keystore ca.jks
```

This command ask a password for file integrity checking.

The command `keytool` is available in any JDK distribution.

### Cassandra configuration 

The default location of the configuration file of Cassandra is `/etc/cassandra/cassandra.yaml`. In this file, locate the section `client_encryption_options` and set the following options: 

```
client_encryption_options: 
    enabled: true 
    optional: false 
    keystore: /etc/cassandra/keystore.p12 
    keystore_password: cassandra 
    store_type: PKCS12 
```

The `keystore` value contains the location of the certificate file (in PKCS12 format). The `keystore_password` contains the password of the certificate file.

Then the service cassandra must be restarted.

### TheHive configuration 

In `application.conf` file: 

```
db.janusgraph.storage { 
  backend: cql 

  hostname: ["127.0.0.1"] 
  cql.ssl { 
    enabled: true 
    truststore { 
      location: /path/to/ca.jks 
      password: cassandra 
    } 
  } 
}
```

The setting `location` define the location of the truststore file (generated by keytool command). The `password` is the one enter during truststore creation.
